---
layout: post
category: code
tags: [front, css]
---

I've been doing a lot more front end development recently and have started to look for best practices when it comes to css. It seems that there are two styles and I believe both have their place.

One is called Object Oriented CSS (OOCSS), and the other is what I will call Declarative CSS. OOCSS has been written about a lot [more](https://github.com/stubbornella/oocss/wiki) so I'll just do a quick summary here.

## Object Oriented CSS

The purpose of "objects" in development is to keep things DRY (don't repeat yourself). The goal of OOCSS is to create a bunch of objects, or mixins, that you can easily apply to each object in your DOM.

Rather than customizing each div uniquely, you apply multiple mixins, via classes, in order to get the layout you want.

The result is that your CSS doesn't change too often, and your html is filled with a lot more classes.

## Declarative CSS

The main goal here is the keep the html as clean as possible. But don't make the assumption that this means you'll be repeating code everywhere within the css. With such tools as [sass](http://sass-lang.com/) you can create the same style mixins as oocss and then apply them to each of your unique css elements (thus keeping your working code clean).

The result being that you have clean html, but your compiled css gets repetitive.

I think that declarative css makes sense for smaller sites that have a lot of unique styles. It will easily let you make lot of customizations to the layout. OOCSS on the other hand is much better for larger sites. In order to keep the OOCSS as clean as possible designers need to keep the number of unique layouts / styles to a minimum.

I'm still learning, but OOCSS seems like a good standard to move towards. The biggest gap in my opinion is the documentation. How do you get a new person up to speed with the css options available to them so they don't go off creating new styles.